
DocViewer
Page
of 7
Pages
In this project, you edit a worksheet for Eller Systems that lists client hours. You plan to format the
data, calculate totals, and prepare the worksheet for review.
File Needed: Eller-01.xlsx (Attached to this project)
Completed Project File Name: [your initials] EllerSystems.xlsx
Skills Covered in This Project
•
 Open and save a workbook.
•
 Choose a workbook theme.
•
 Rename and apply color to sheet tabs.
•
 Use the Fill Handle to enter a series.
•
 Adjust column width and row height.
•
 Center labels across a selection and wrap text.
•
 Set font attributes and number formats.
•
 Use the AutoSum button.
•
 Change orientation and scale a worksheet for printing.
•
 Design borders.
•
 Insert a row.
•
 Adjust page setup options.
1. Open the workbook Eller-01.xlsx. If the workbook opens in Protected View, click Enable
Editing in the security bar.
2. Save the workbook with a new file name.
a. Press F12 (FN+F12) to open the Save As dialog box.
b. Navigate to the folder where your files are stored.
c. Rename the file [your initials] EllerSystems.
d. Click Save.
3. Change the workbook theme.
a. Click the Themes button [Page Layout tab, Themes group].
b. Choose Facet from the gallery. The font automatically changes throughout the
worksheet.
c. Point to the Fonts button [Page Layout tab, Themes group] to display its ScreenTip.
The default theme font is Trebuchet MS for the Facet theme (Figure 1-94).
Figure 1-94 Each theme has a set of theme fonts
4. Rename and color a sheet tab.
a. Double-click the Sheet1 tab.
b. Type MN Clients and press Enter.
c. Right-click the MN Clients tab.
d. Select Tab Color and choose Black, Text 1 (second column).
5. Adjust column width.
a. Click the column heading for column A.
b. Click and drag to select columns A:J.
c. Double-click the border between any two column headings in the selected range.
Each column adjusts to fit its widest label.
d. Click cell A1. The widest label is in cell A2.
e. Click the Format button [Home tab, Cells group] and select Column Width.
f. Type 12 and press Enter. The label in cell A2 spills into the empty cell B2.
6. Fill a label series.
a. Click cell G5.
b. Type MN001 and press Enter.
c. Double-click the right border for the column G heading to AutoFit the column to the
new data.
d. Select G5 and double-click its Fill Handle.
7. Choose alignment settings.
a. Select cells A1:J2 and click the Alignment launcher [Home tab, Alignment group].
b. Click the Horizontal drop-down list, select Center Across Selection, and click OK.
c. Select cell J4 and click the Wrap Text button [Home tab, Alignment group]. Nothing
changes.
d. Point to the right border for the column J heading and drag the two-pointed arrow to
reach approximately 8.00 so that Hours to appears by itself. The second line of the
label still does not display (Figure 1-95).
Figure 1-95 Set the wrap text attribute and adjust row height
e. Double-click the bottom row border for row 4 to AutoFit the row height.
8. Apply font attributes.
a. Select cells A1:A2, click the Font Size drop-down list [Home tab, Font group], and
select 18.
b. Select cells A4:J4 and click the Bold button [Home tab, Font group].
c. Click the Center button [Home tab, Alignment group].
9. Find and edit data.
a. Select cell A4.
b. Click the Find & Select button [Home tab, Editing group] and choose Find.
c. Type lyn* in the Find what entry box. This search string will find names that begin
with “lyn” followed by any number of characters.
d. Click the Options>> button to expand the dialog box.
e. Click Find All. Two cells are identified.
f. Click the first found item in the list to make the cell active in the sheet (Figure 1-96).
Figure 1-96 Find results for the lyn* character string
g. Click the cell in the worksheet or in the Formula bar to place the insertion point.
h. Change the street name to Trudale.
i. Click the second item in the list and change the street name to Trudale.
j. Close the Find & Replace dialog box.
10. Display and calculate average hours.
a. Click cell I32.
b. Type Average Number of Hours and press Enter.
c. Select cell I32 and click the Bold button [Home tab, Font group].
d. Click the Align Right button [Home tab, Alignment group].
e. Select cell J32.
f. Click the AutoSum button arrow [Home tab, Editing group] and select Average. The
suggested range is correct.
g. Press Enter. The result displays with as many decimal positions as fit in the cell
(15.2222).
h. Select cell J32 and click the Decrease Decimal button [Home tab, Number group]
four times.
11. Design and apply borders.
a. Select cells A4:J32.
b. Click the Border drop-down arrow [Home tab, Font group] and choose More
Borders to open the Format Cells dialog box.
c. Verify that the Border tab is active.
d. Select the thick solid single line (second column, fifth option) in the Style list.
e. Click Outline in the Presets group.
f. Select the solid single line (first column, last or bottom option) in the Style list.
g. Click the middle vertical border icon in the preview area, below the preview box.
h. Select the dashed line (first column, third option) in the Style list.
i. Click the middle horizontal border icon in the Border preview area (Figure 1-97).
Change border settings by clicking the button or the border in the preview box to
hide or display borders as needed.
Figure 1-97 Build a custom border in the Format Cells dialog box
j. Click OK.
12. Manage page and print setup options.
a. Click the File tab and choose Print. The worksheet does not fit a portrait page.
b. Click Portrait Orientation in the Settings area and choose Landscape Orientation.
c. Click the Next Page icon in the print preview to see that the worksheet still does not
fit.
d. Click No Scaling in the Settings area and choose Fit Sheet on One Page.
e. Click Page Setup below the scaling option in the Settings area to open the Page
Setup dialog box.
f. Click the Header/Footer tab and click the Custom Footer button.
g. Click the left section and click the Insert File Name button.
h. Click the center section and click the Insert Sheet Name button.
i. Insert the date in the right section (Figure 1-98).
Figure 1-98 Build a custom footer
j. Click OK to close the dialog boxes.
k. Press Esc to return to the workbook.
13. Adjust zoom size and split panes.
a. Select cell C1.
b. Click the Zoom In button in the Status bar five times. The number of rows and
columns visible depends on your screen size.
c. Click the Split button [View tab, Window group].
d. Click the rightmost cell in row 1 that is visible.
e. Press Tab as many times as necessary to scroll column H to the immediate right of
column B (Figure 1-99).
Figure 1-99 Panes split and columns scrolled
14. Save and close the workbook (Figure 1-100).
Figure 1-100 completed
Annotations
